- [Instructor] We have seen how to deploy
a multi-contained application across multiple hosts.
That's your typical production scenario
or even development scenario for that sake.
Seldom cases you may want to have
to manage the nodes by yourself.
Let's take a look at that.
Here I have my six-node cluster running.
I may want to upgrade a node say change an operating system,
add more memory, add more CPU, attach an SSD,
or for some sake, I want to get the node out.
What you do in that case is you say docker node command,
and then you say update and change the availability
to drain and you give it a node name.
Well, how do you find out the node name?
Well, you do docker node LS, and that shows you
all the nodes that are available to you.
Now if you do do that, then essentially it's equal
to saying your container is
no longer available on that node.
Then, Swarm kicks in
it says desired and actual are not matching,
so it's going to reschedule the container on a different node.
That's kind of cool.
In certain cases, you may not want
to have the container reschedule.
You may want to take the container
or the node, rather, offline so that you have
the ability to debug the container
while it's running in production.
In which case you say, I'm going to
change the availability to pause.
What that means is the container
will continue to be running.
It will not be rescheduled on a different node.
You can debug the container as if
it's still running in production.
Of course, no more containers will be sent
to this particular node.
Once you are done with debugging,
you can bring the node back to availability.
Then everything is hunky dory as it was earlier.
Another concept that you want to understand is labels
Depending upon how your nodes are configured,
if you have a homogenous cluster,
then you don't have an issue because then each node
in the cluster has the same amount of capacity,
same amount of memory, same amount of CPU.
Typically you would create a heterogeneous cluster
just to make sure you are using
your associates efficiently.
In that case, you may want to assign labels.
For example, let's say that two nodes on the right
have SSD attached to it, and the three nodes on the left,
the worker nodes, that don't.
What you can do is you can use Docker OPTS property.
Set labels to the node.
In this case what I'm saying is --label=wildfly.storage=ssd.
Once I assign the label, how can I use it?
Well, when I deploy my service I can say
docker service create three replicas name is web.
I can specify a constraint.
Only deploy this service on the nodes
that need the constraint.
The label and the constraint have to match.
In this case, even though there are three nodes
on the left, but the constraints on the label
are only matching on the right side,
so that's where the container will be deployed.
If you scale, even the scale would honor that
because original service definition says
make sure the label and the constraints are matching.
What that means is now if I can deploy
my database container, say the couch based container,
those would be deployed on the nodes
that do not have any labels on them.
Remember, the labels and the constraints,
they both have to match in order for a service
to be deployed on that node.
This gives you some control over how and where
you want your service to be deployed
and how you can efficiently utilize your resources.
Another concept that you want to understand is,
so far all the examples that we have seen
is of replicated service.
What that means is I can create a service
and I can replicate it as many times,
but in certain cases, you may want to run a global service.
Prometheus, for example, is a logging service.
You want to run a single instance of that
on each of the nodes of the cluster.
Then, you can say docker service create
just specify the mode as global.
By default the mode is replicated.
Give it a service name, and the image name,
and there you go.
A new service is created with a single instance
of the container on each of the nodes.
Now if a new node is added to the cluster,
that service is automatically created
with a single instance over there.